Preface
#######

Hi, I'm `Reinout van Rees <http://reinout.vanrees.org>`_. You're now reading
my book on Django, so I'll give you some background information on myself and
the book, first. You're free to read the actual Django meat of the book, but
this introduction might be fun, too.

I'll tell you a bit about *my background*, about the *the background of this
book* and about the *book's structure*. I'll tell you how you can *pay
me luxurious sums* for this wonderful piece of timeless prose and how to *give
feedback*.


Reinout's background
====================

By education, I'm a `civil engineer
<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Civil_engineering>`_. A military engineer builds
missiles, a civil engineer builds targets. So if an architect designs
something, we get to make sure it doesn't collapse. And if there's a big storm
surge barrier or something like that: civil engineers.

By hobby and self-education, I'm a programmer. Pascal in the 1990s, Python
since 2000. Mostly `Zope <http://zope.org>`_ and `Plone <http://plone.org>`_
in the beginning; Django since about three years. So I've got a quite diverse
background, especially since I've delved into the deep, deep pits of
Zope/Plone complexity. Lovely stuff. Learned a lot. Now I'm working full-time
with Django. Lovely stuff!

By profession, I'm both a civil engineer and a programmer at the moment. I
work at `Nelen & Schuurmans <http://www.nelen-schuurmans.nl>`_ in the
Netherlands, a firm that does consultancy and IT development for water quality
and water protection clients. So if you don't want water to flood your house
and if you don't want your water to stink because of floating dead fish: give
us a call. We'll give you a nice Django website.

By internet visibility, I'm pretty visible. At least in the Python/Django
community, because my weblog at http://reinout.vanrees.org/weblog/ is mostly
about Python and Django. I write down a lot of what I discover or build, but I
also make summaries of each and every `(Django) conference
<http://reinout.vanrees.org/weblog/tags/djangocon.html>`_ or `Dutch
Python/Django user group meeting
<http://reinout.vanrees.org/weblog/tags/pun.html>`_ I attend. That sure helps
a lot.

By hobby, I am a `recumbent cyclist <http://reinout.vanrees.org/ligfiets>`_
and a medieval swordfighter. The first isn't of interest here, but the second
one is. Medieval swordfighter, you say?  Yes, that's relevant to the book. I'm
picking a medieval theme as my main example, that's why.


Background of the book
======================

Just a couple of weeks after 2011's Djangocon.eu conference I got an email
from the `pragmatic programmers <http://www.pragprog.com>`_ whether I was
interested to write a book about Django for them. I'm pretty sure that was
because I just wrote a pretty decent summary of each and every talk on that
year's conference. Liveblogging. Writing a book! Fun! An honour! But why are
they asking me just when I'm moving to another house with my family?!?

Anyhow, I started writing the book and postponed quite some work on our new
house. For about 9 months I was busy writing. They even brought in a co-author
(thanks, Harry, for all you did!). But after 9 months is was clear that it was
simply taking too much time. `Abort abort abort
<http://reinout.vanrees.org/weblog/2012/05/23/djangobook-schluss.html>`_: the
book got canceled.

Rightly so, as it really took too much time. I think my writing style was out
of sync with theirs. And the level of penmanship they require wasn't what I
could manage. I *do* tend to be a tad verbose... If I *can* drag in another
sub-subject, I *will* drag it in. Getting me in line took too much time.

After the cancellation I took time off. Finish the front garden, for
instance. And I took a rest from the relentless book-writing pace. Writing a
book really takes a lot of energy! I couldn't keep it up anymore so I took a
well-deserved rest.

In november 2012, I restarted my book project. Django 1.5's christmas 2012
release date told me it was good to get a core part of the book finished by
the same time. *Somebody* had to tell a good story about class based views,
right? First get the core finished, then add the other necessary parts. and if
there's interest, finish it all off with bonus content.


Book structure
===============

The book is divided up into three parts.

- Django's foundation: an intro, models, views, templates, URLs. That's the
  absolute basic part of Django that you need to understand.

- Django's most common building blocks: what you'll use and customize most of
  the time when building your Django websites. Model queries, admin
  customization, packaging Django applications, javascript/css, security,
  editing/forms and hosting/webserver configuration.

- Extras that can be very handy. REST APIs, south automatic database
  migrations, Python intro for new programmers, debugging, management
  commands, context processors, buildout, nosql.

By the time you read this, the book won't be fully ready yet. I aim to finish
the first part to co-incide with Django 1.5's christmas 2012 release. I'll
finish the second part in the months after that.

The extras? Those are extra. Some of them I'll want to write for my own
fun. Some of them I'll write if there's interest in my book (see below) :-)


Paying me ridiculous amounts of money
=====================================

Why am I writing this book? Am I doing it for the money? Mostly not, but
partially yes.

I can write. I've written a 250 page PhD thesis. I write a lot on my
weblog. So writing is fun. And I've had the idea of writing a (second) book in
my mind for some time. Being asked to write a Django book (see above) provided
the spark to actually start!

Writing takes a ridiculous amount of time, though. Time I'm not spending
cycling or swordfighting or fixing up the house or writing software. So a bit
of compensation is in order. The goal that I have in mind is to try and earn
5000 Euro, enough to pay off my remaining study debt. How's that for a goal?
(I don't yet know how it stands with taxes, so I might need to actually earn
more to get my hands on 5000).

On the other hand, I'm not going to bother with DRM-protected ebooks. Or HTML
pages behind a paywall. You can read the HTML for free and download the PDF
right from my website. I *am* asking for a **donation**, though.

So... if this book is useful to you, giving me some money is a good way to say
thanks. I'd say something between 10 and 20 Euro, more or less. Actually,
anything is good, but that's my suggestion. I haven't yet given you my bank
account details or paypal account, though. The reason?  I haven't finished
even the first part of the book yet. I don't want to accept money before I've
finished with that!


Giving me feedback
==================

I'm writing a book on programming and Django. So there's only one real choice
for giving structured feedback: github. https://github.com/reinout/soliddjango
. Open issues or give me pull requests.

If you've got generic feedback, it is probably easiest to send me a regular
email at `reinout@vanrees.org <mailto:reinout@vanrees.org>`_.

Anyway... have fun with the book!
